One is in the Conan novel you did, Conan the Rebel.
I was interested in how you got involved in writing that on the Conan series.
Oh, this was very simple.
One day the telephone rang and I picked it up and there was Elsprake the camp at the
other end of the line.
He was involved in a project to generate a few more Conan novels and would I be interested?
Well, I'd always enjoyed Conan and without going into detail I ended up thinking what
the Dickens why not do it.
And I had fun doing it.
You know, it didn't pretend to be literature or anything.
It was just a squashbuckler but I enjoyed doing it and I hope readers have enjoyed reading it.
Okay, fine.
We would also like to know about the work you're presently doing.
You know, what kinds of books you have, what you're working on now and what kind of future
plans for things to write that you have.
Well, it's a little difficult to say.
After finishing that Conan book, which I did almost two years ago, I did practically
no writing.
I was engaged in other things until just very recently.
So at the moment I'm in the middle of a novel.
No, not the middle, the early part of the novel.
It's going to occupy me for until the middle of summer at least.
It's what my wife calls the kitchen sink novel.
You throw everything in including the kitchen sink.
And that's really about all I can say about it now.
You don't have any kinds of movie rights on any of your books presently?
No, it's merely one that I've contracted to do.
It would be nice if movie rights or something like that sold but nothing like that is on the horizon yet.
Okay, and my third question would be from your standpoint, having written ever since
the 1940s and given the huge amount of your life that you've given to science fiction.
In fact, you were president of the science fiction writers of America also.
Do you think science fiction has changed as you look around right now?
How does the field of science fiction look to you in contrast to when you started writing?
Oh yes, I've been a great many changes back around 1940 or so.
Well, practically all you could get unless you heart back to a few writers like Wells and Byron.
Practically all you could get was in a few pop magazines.
Nowadays, of course, there's an overwhelming flood of it.
It is not possible to read all which appears.
And also, of course, it's no longer disrecatable.
It's become quite respectable.
You know, when I was your age, it was unthinkable that anybody could arrange a telephone interview with one of the writers of it
under the auspices of a college for heaven's sake.
Good Lord, this was pop fiction that was beyond the pale.
Nowadays, it's being taught in college courses and all this other stuff, you know.
And it has sort of...
But actually all this is kind of trivial.
I think the important thing is that the basic concepts have sort of permeated the public mind.
And I think people are aware in that nowadays in a way that they never used to be aware.
But the future is going to be different from the past.
It may be better, it may be worse, whatever, but it's going to be different and in very fundamental ways.
And they tend to accept this, be prepared for it.
And then also you'll get...
Well, if I want...
I often say that perhaps the most important public service that science fiction is doing is by casting a certain glamour over science and technology.
It recruits a lot of young people into these fields and heaven knows we need an awful lot of scientists and technologists.
Okay, that's basically one of the things we do in our class too, is try to get the students to see what science fiction has contributed, you know, toward making people aware of the future.
Very good. Excellent.
Okay, listen, that would probably be a good place to stop.